Motivational Problems at Gulf Shore Software Inc.
Elizabeth Green is having problems keeping her employees motivated. Elizabeth started Gulf Shore Software Corporation three years ago. It is a small software company creating business software designed for the hotel and restaurant industry. After being in business for three years, Elizabeth began to realize a small profit. However, she was plagued by another problem. Her four employees were becoming disgruntled and she had accidentally overheard two of them discussing leaving the company. Losing either employee could put her business in jeopardy. Elizabeth started thinking about how she could get some practical ideas on how to motivate her employees.
Elizabeth decided to implement a bonus incentive system to motivate her employees and hopefully increase their commitment to the company. Elizabeth's bonus incentive system consisted of a cash bonus of $1000 for developing custom designed software on schedule. Elizabeth wanted to ensure that projects were completed on schedule so that customers would be pleased. Besides, when clients received the quality software on time, they were willing to pay a premium price. Getting the products developed on schedule without any decrease in quality had never been achieved by anyone previously at Gulf Shore Software Corporation.

Employee Descriptions

同学3：
Bill Jones 49, retired Navy chief. Bill came to work for Gulf Shore Software Corporation because when he retired from the Navy, he really didn't know what to do with himself. He had thrived in the Navy because it provided him with many opportunities to receive recognition for his achievements. Bill is a very skilled programmer who prides himself on being a perfectionist. Bill's military retirement pays for all of his family's needs and he primarily spends the money he makes on his boat and fishing trips that he and his wife of 30 years enjoy immensely. Bill feels unchallenged and unappreciated and it is rumored that he might quit and go with his wife on an extended fishing trip on his 30-foot ROBALO center console fishing boat.
同学4：
Sara Brown 17, high school dropout. Sara dropped out of school when she was 15 because as she told it, "The teachers were stupid." Sara has been playing around with her father's computer since she could sit on his lap. She built her own computer from used parts when she was fifteen and can fix any piece of equipment in the company. Sara is also a highly skilled programmer. She has to put in many hours of overtime working on the computers just to keep them running. Even her boyfriend complains that she doesn't have any time for him because she works so many hours. Sara sometimes feels Elizabeth and others take advantage of her, because she is the only one who can fix the equipment and configure it to meet the changing demands. Sara is the lowest paid programmer because she doesn't have a high school or college degree. Despite her low pay, Sara frequently tells her coworkers and friends that she loves her work and wouldn't dream of quitting. Sara is not very excited about the new bonus incentive plan because she has so little time to write programs.
同学5：
Katherine Wright 37, single mother with 3 kids. Katherine works because she desperately needs the money. She is a slow programmer, but she keeps the office running. The customers always ask for Katherine because she gets answers to their questions. She also serves as a buffer between customers and the other "techies." Elizabeth often confides in her about the company's problems because, being an extrovert, Elizabeth needs to "think out loud" with someone who understands the company but respects confidentiality. Katherine is the quiet glue that holds the place together. In a recent conversation Katherine mentioned her difficulty getting "both ends to meet." When Katherine first heard about the incentive plan, she was excited but quickly became discouraged when she realized that the goal was hardly attainable given all the demands on her time. Katherine was also frustrated by that fact that it took her longer to complete the programming than her coworkers. In her own mind Katherine did not believe she could achieve the performance goal even if she spent all her time programming.
同学6：
Ron Hall 25, single. After graduating with two degrees, one in marketing and one in management information systems, from Sea Breeze University, Ron became a sales representative for a large computer company in Atlanta. He recently decided to go to work for Gulf Shore Software Corporation because he desired the challenge of working for a new, up and coming company. He also liked the idea of relocating to a city on the Gulf of Mexico. Ron lives on his sailboat that he keeps at the Yacht Club. When Ron is not programming, he is entertaining customers on his sail boat. Since he joined the company, sales have begun to increase. Ron thinks this increase in profits is due to his socializing and networking with customers. Ron loves the attention and recognition he gets from the customers, but he is considering leaving the company because he feels that he is worth a lot more money than what he is being paid. Specifically, Ron believes that he should be the highest-paid programmer because he has two degrees (all the other employees except for Sara have college degrees from liberal arts colleges). He also believes he is responsible for the increase in company sales since his arrival. Ron's dissatisfaction became known when he accidentally discovered that Bill Jones is making more money than him even though his college degree of 20 years ago is in philosophy rather than in computer science or management information systems.

# Employee Motivation Analysis
## Directions
This is a team assignment. Read the case by downloading Motivation Problems at Gulf Shore Software case.pdf.

Looking back at the Motivation Theories, determine which theory best explains the motivation of each employee. Explain your rationale for each of your answers. The team will work on the answers together and submit the answer through Treenity.

For each of the four employees,
1. Which motivation theory best explains his/her motivation?
2. Is she/he motivated by the bonus incentive plan? Why or why not?
3. If he/she is not motivated, how would you recommend motivating him/her? Why would this work?
